# NGO-Clustering-Assignment

  In this clustering of countries assignment, the main aim of this assignment is to find at least 5 countries which are in need of help from our client HELP International which is an international humanitarian NGO that is committed to fighting poverty and providing the people of backward countries with basic amenities and relief during the time of disasters and natural calamities.
  The data is given from the client where it contains details of countries gdpp, income, child mortality rate, child fertility rate, imports, exports, life expectancy, health and much more. As a Data Analyst our role is to find the top countries which are in immediate need from our client. The imports, exports and health features are in % values of gdpp, which are first converted to absolute values
  The data given is first checked for null values and outliers, there were no null values in the data given but we found many outliers in every feature of the data, therefore we removed data points which are upper quartile outliers in gdpp feature, which in turn removed most of the outliers from other features as well. Since, these are domain specific outliers, the remaining outliers are not treated since they might contain valuable information.
  EDA is performed on the data where univariate analysis on life expectancy and health is made, and boxplots for all numerical columns to find outliers. Bivariate analysis is also performed on income vs. child mortality and income vs. total fertility
  The data is then scaled using Standard scaling method, which makes it easier for the clustering algorithm.
  To check for Cluster tendency we performed Hopkins test, which the score is from 0 to 1, where 0 means the data is not suitable for clustering and 1 means the data is perfect for clustering. To decide on the cluster number, we performed a series of tests using silhouette score and elbow method, which suggested that 3 is the good cluster number based on the data given.
  In case of forming the clusters, we performed k-means and Hierarchical clustering (for both single and complete linkage) for cluster number 3 and 4 in order to choose the best model and cluster number. Kmeans for 3 clusters performed well in differentiating the data well for 3 clusters, when kmeans for 4 clusters where performed, only one single data point was clustered in the 4 cluster. In case of Hierarchical clustering, single linkage method performed very poorly and complete linkage formed clusters which did not differentiate clusters well from each other. Therefore, we choose K means as the final model and cluster number as 3. The clusters are checked by plotting line graph for gdpp, income and child mortality based on the clusters formed
  The top 10 countries which require help are found by the countries from the cluster which has low gdpp and income and high child mortality, within this cluster we need 10 countries which need help; therefore, we sorted the countries where gdpp and income are sorted in ascending and child mortality is sorted in descending and retrieving only 10 countries from the sorted countries list
